Background Sniffing
Packet Sniffing is the process of scanning the data packets on the network using the software package tappers. the activities are exercised in the network to tap its hard to be prevented, even though we have done a software installation for the prevention of attacks against the security of the network, because it is a problem of a protocol or communication that there is no relationship or any relationship at all with the operating system you are using.
Discussion and content
In the case of suppose you as a user of the computer that is connected to the Office network. When you send an email to your friends who are located outside of the city then the email will be sent from your computer is constantly passing through your office computer network, and out of Office through the internet network, and then to diinbox email your friends. At the time of the email through your office computer network that is called Sniffing activity. Can usually be done by a network admin that control server or use another computer that is connected to another computer on the network that is connected to a computer your Office work. With the use of snifing email you can be caught or seen so that the contents can be read by the person doing the Sniffing techniques.

Activities to tap or sniffing is divided into 2 types:
1. Passive Sniffing is an activity intercepts without changing data or any packet on the network. Passive sniffing is common in doing that is in the Hub, this is caused because the working principles of the hub which is only in charge of forward signal to all computers (broadcast), in contrast to the switches have a way to avoid a collision or clash that occurred at the hub by reading the MAC address of the computer. Some programs that are generally used to perform this activity i.e. wireshark, the cain-abel, etc.
2. Active sniffing sniffing is an activity that can make changes to data packets in a network to perform active sniffing sniffing, in other words is the opposite of passive sniffing. Active sniffing is generally done on a Switch, it is on the basis of the difference between the basic principles because the Hubs and switches, such as those described above. The most common Active sniffing in the do is ARP Poisoning, Man in the middle attack (MITM).

Conclusion
Two types of sniffing this very detrimental if it occurs on the network because it could have been our personal data or accounts-personal accounts we kind of e-mail that is sensitive can divest victims.
Sniffing alone is an act that is very difficult to prevent. There is no solution that is easy, fast, and safe, that we can do to mencecegah this kind of attack. But of course, we can minimize the damage that may occur in the future. The fastest thing in use and not cost is the use of encryption so data-data that is passing by on the network we are very difficult to read.
There is no effective way that can prevent the activities of Sniffing at the very least we can do follow to minimize such attacks one way by using a secure protocol. For a secure communication is to use HTTPS (by adding s = secure), Secure Socket Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS). For standard that includes an unsafe condition for example: Telnet, HTTP, SMTP, POP, NNTP and IMAP FTP.
